Add permissions, metrics, and metadata attributes to Data Prepper dyn… (#6380)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/dynamo-db.md

## Exposed metadata attributes

The following metadata will be added to each event that is processed by the `dynamodb` source. These metadata attributes can be accessed with the [expression syntax `getMetadata` function](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/#getmetadata).

* `primary_key` - The primary key of the DynamoDB item. For tables that only contain a partition key, this value gives the partition key. For tables that contain both a partition and sort key, the` primary_key` attribute will be equal to the partition and sort key, separated by a `|`, for example `partition_key|sort_key`.
* `partition_key` - The partition key of the DynamoDB item.
* `sort_key` - The sort key of the DynamoDB item. This will be null if the table does not have a sort key.
* `dynamodb_timestamp` - The timestamp of the DynamoDB item. This will be the export time for export items and the DynamoDB stream event time for stream items. This timestamp is used by sinks to emit an `EndtoEndLatency` metric for DynamoDB stream events, which tracks the latency between a change in the DynamoDB table and that change getting applied to the sink.

> * `document_version` - Uses the `dynamodb_timestamp` to modify break ties between stream items that are received in the same second. Recommend for use with the `opensearch` sink's `document_version` setting.

Reviewer: Looked into this a bit more. At first, I thought that there's a chance that you could receive a request within milliseconds of each other, which wouldn't occur simultaneously. However, It looks like the DynamoDB timestamp format ends at the second counter (see https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/working-with-date-and-timestamp-data-types-in-amazon-dynamodb/). With that in mind, I think simultaneously is easier to understand.

> * `document_version` - Uses the `dynamodb_timestamp` to modify break ties between stream items that are received in the same second. Recommend for use with the `opensearch` sink's `document_version` setting.

Reviewer: Let me know if modified suggestions works for you @natebower

> * `document_version` - Uses the `dynamodb_timestamp` to modify break ties between stream items that are received in the same second. Recommend for use with the `opensearch` sink's `document_version` setting.

Reviewer 2: @Naarcha-AWS LGTM once the hyphen is changed to either an en dash or colon.

> * `opensearch_action` - A default value for mapping DynamoDB event actions to OpenSearch actions. This action will be `index` for export items, and `INSERT` or `MODIFY` for stream events, and `REMOVE` stream events when the OpenSearch action is `delete`.

Reviewer 2: "This action will be `index` for export items, `INSERT` or `MODIFY` for stream events, and `REMOVE` when the OpenSearch action is `delete`"? (The second sentence needs a little revision for consistency.)

> * `opensearch_action` - A default value for mapping DynamoDB event actions to OpenSearch actions. This action will be `index` for export items, and `INSERT` or `MODIFY` for stream events, and `REMOVE` stream events when the OpenSearch action is `delete`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `opensearch_action` - A default value for mapping DynamoDB event actions to OpenSearch actions. This action will be `index` for export items,`INSERT` or `MODIFY` for stream events, and `REMOVE` for deleted stream events. 
```

Reviewer: @natebower: ?

Reviewer 2: @Naarcha-AWS LGTM

> * `dynamodb_event_name` - The exact event type for the item. Will be `null` for export items, and either `INSERT`, `MODIFY`, or `REMOVE` for stream events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `dynamodb_event_name` - The exact event type for the item. Will be `null` for export items and either `INSERT`, `MODIFY`, or `REMOVE` for stream events.
```

> * `table_name` - The DynamoDB table name that an event came from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `table_name` - The name of the DynamoDB table that an event came from.
```

## Permissions

> The following shows the minimum required permissions for running DynamoDB as a source:

Reviewer 2: Can "shows" just be "are"?

> The following shows the minimum required permissions for running DynamoDB as a source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are the minimum required permissions for running DynamoDB as a source:
```

            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowCheckExportjob",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "dynamodb:DescribeExport"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table/export/*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowReadFromStream",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "dynamodb:DescribeStream",
                "dynamodb:GetRecords",
                "dynamodb:GetShardIterator"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table/stream/*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowReadAndWriteToS3ForExport",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:PutObjectAcl"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::my-bucket/*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

> When performing an export, `"Sid": "allowReadFromStream"` section is not required. If only reading from DynamoDB streams, the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When performing an export, the `"Sid": "allowReadFromStream"` section is not required. If only reading from DynamoDB streams, the 
```

> `"Sid": "allowReadAndWriteToS3ForExport"`, `"Sid": "allowCheckExportjob"`, ` "Sid": "allowRunExportJob"` sections are not required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`"Sid": "allowReadAndWriteToS3ForExport"`, `"Sid": "allowCheckExportjob"`, and ` "Sid": "allowRunExportJob"` sections are not required.
```

## Metrics

> The `dynamodb` source includes the following metrics:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `dynamodb` source includes the following metrics.
```

### Counters

> * `exportJobSuccess` - The number of export jobs that have been submitted successfully.

Reviewer 2: The list items should all be separated from their descriptions by either a colon (`partition_key`: The) or an en dash (`partition_key` -- The).

* `exportJobFailure` - The number of export job submission attempts that have failed.

> * `exportS3ObjectsTotal` - The total number of export data files found in S3 for an export.

Reviewer 2: Can "for an export" be removed?

* `exportS3ObjectsProcessed` - The total number of export data files that have been processed successfully from S3.

> * `exportRecordsTotal` - The total number of records found in the entire export.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `exportRecordsTotal` - The total number of records found in the export.
```

* `exportRecordsProcessed`: The total number of export records that have been processed successfully.
* `exportRecordsProcessingErrors`: The number of export record processing errors.
* `changeEventsProcessed`: The number of change events processed from DynamoDB streams.
* `changeEventsProcessingErrors`: The number of processing errors for change events from DynamoDB streams.

> * `shardProgress`: The incremented shard progress when DynamoDB streams are being read correctly. If this is `0` for a certain period of time, then there is a problem with the pipeline that has streams enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `shardProgress`: The incremented shard progress when DynamoDB streams are being read correctly. This being`0` for any significant amount of time means there is a problem with the pipeline that has streams enabled.
```

> * `shardProgress` - The incremented shard progress when DynamoDB streams are being read correctly. If this is `0` for a certain period of time, then there is a problem with the pipeline that has streams enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `shardProgress` - The incremented shard progress when DynamoDB streams are being read correctly. This being `0` for a certain period of time indicates a problem with the pipeline that has streams enabled.
```

> * `shardProgress` - The incremented shard progress when DynamoDB streams are being read correctly. If this is `0` for a certain period of time, then there is a problem with the pipeline that has streams enabled.

Reviewer 2: Should we specify what we mean by "a certain period of time", or do we mean something like "for any length of time"?

Reviewer: "For any significant length of time?"

Reviewer: I think its really dependent on the user's configuration and what their own expected shard progress time is.

Reviewer 2: Ok, then "For any significant length of time" works.

:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`start_position` | No | String | The position from where the source starts reading stream events when the DynamoDB stream option is enabled. `LATEST` starts reading events from the most recent stream record. 

## Exposed metadata attributes

> The following metadata will be added to each Event that is processed by the DynamoDB source. These metadata attributes can be accessed with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following metadata will be added to each rvent that is processed by the `dynamodb` source. These metadata attributes can be accessed with the [expression syntax `getMetadata` function](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/#getmetadata).
```

> the [expression syntax `getMetadata` function](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/#getmetadata).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * `primary_key` - The primary key of the DynamoDB item. For tables that only contain a partition key, this value will give the partition key. For tables that contain both a partition and sort key, the primary_key attribute will be equal to the partition and sort key, separated by a `|` (i.e. `partition_key|sort_key`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `primary_key` - The primary key of the DynamoDB item. For tables that only contain a partition key, this value gives the partition key. For tables that contain both a partition and sort key, the` primary_key` attribute will be equal to the partition and sort key, separated by a `|`, for example `partition_key|sort_key`.
```

* `partition_key` - The partition key of the DynamoDB item

> * `sort_key` - The sort key of the DynamoDB item. This will be null if the table does not have a sort key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sort_key` - The sort key of the DynamoDB item. This will be null if the table does not have a sort key.
```

> * `dynamodb_timestamp` - The timestamp of the DynamoDB item. This will be the export time for export items, and the DynamoDB stream Event time for stream items. This timestamp is used by sinks to emit an `EndtoEndLatency` metric for DynamoDB stream Events, which tracks the latency between a change in the DynamoDB table, and that change getting applied to the sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `dynamodb_timestamp` - The timestamp of the DynamoDB item. This will be the export time for export items and the DynamoDB stream event time for stream items. This timestamp is used by sinks to emit an `EndtoEndLatency` metric for DynamoDB stream events, which tracks the latency between a change in the DynamoDB table and that change getting applied to the sink.
```

> * `document_version` - Based off the `dynamodb_timestamp`, and modified to break ties between stream items that are received in the same second. Recommend for use with the `opensearch` sink `document_version` setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `document_version` - Uses the `dynamodb_timestamp` to modify break ties between stream items that are received in the same second. Recommend for use with the `opensearch` sink's `document_version` setting.
```

> * `opensearch_action` - A default value for mapping DynamoDB Event actions to OpenSearch actions. This action will be `index` for export items, and INSERT or MODIFY stream events. This action will be `delete` for REMOVE stream events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `opensearch_action` - A default value for mapping DynamoDB event actions to OpenSearch actions. This action will be `index` for export items, and `INSERT` or `MODIFY` for stream events, and `REMOVE` stream events when the OpenSearch action is `delete`.
```

* `dynamodb_event_name` - The exact event type for the item. Will be `null` for export items, and either `INSERT`, `MODIFY`, or `REMOVE` for stream events.
* `table_name` - The DynamoDB table name that an event came from.

## Permissions

> The following shows the minimum required permissions for running DynamoDB as a source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following shows the minimum required permissions for running DynamoDB as a source:
```

            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowCheckExportjob",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "dynamodb:DescribeExport"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table/export/*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowReadFromStream",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "dynamodb:DescribeStream",
                "dynamodb:GetRecords",
                "dynamodb:GetShardIterator"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table/stream/*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowReadAndWriteToS3ForExport",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:PutObjectAcl"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::my-bucket/*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

> If only doing an export, `"Sid": "allowReadFromStream"` section is not required. If only reading from DynamoDB streams, the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When performing an export, `"Sid": "allowReadFromStream"` section is not required. If only reading from DynamoDB streams, the 
```

`"Sid": "allowReadAndWriteToS3ForExport"`, `"Sid": "allowCheckExportjob"`, ` "Sid": "allowRunExportJob"` sections are not required.

## Metrics

> The `dynamodb` source includes the following metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dynamodb` source includes the following metrics:
```

### Counters

> * `exportJobSuccess` - The number of export jobs that have been submitted successfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exportJobSuccess` - The number of export jobs that have been submitted successfully.
```

> * `exportJobFailure` - The number of export job submission attempts that have failed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exportJobFailure` - The number of export job submission attempts that have failed.
```

> * `exportS3ObjectsTotal` - The total number of export data files found in S3 for an export

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exportS3ObjectsTotal` - The total number of export data files found in S3 for an export.
```

> * `exportS3ObjectsProcessed` - The total number of export data files that have been processed successfully from S3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exportS3ObjectsProcessed` - The total number of export data files that have been processed successfully from S3.
```

> * `exportRecordsTotal` - The total number of records found the entire export

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exportRecordsTotal` - The total number of records found in the entire export.
```

> * `exportRecordsProcessed` - The total number of export records that have been processed successfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exportRecordsProcessed` - The total number of export records that have been processed successfully.
```

> * `exportRecordsProcessingErrors` - The number of export record processing errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exportRecordsProcessingErrors` - The number of export record processing errors.
```

> * `changeEventsProcessed` - The number of change events processed from DynamoDB streams

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `changeEventsProcessed` - The number of change events processed from DynamoDB streams.
```

> * `changeEventsProcessingErrors` - The number of processing errors for change events from DynamoDB streams

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `changeEventsProcessingErrors` - The number of processing errors for change events from DynamoDB streams.
```

> * `shardProgress` - Incremented when DynamoDB streams is being read from correctly. If this is 0 for a certain period of time, then there is a problem with the pipeline if it has streams enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `shardProgress` - The incremented shard progress when DynamoDB streams are being read correctly. If this is `0` for a certain period of time, then there is a problem with the pipeline that has streams enabled.
```

:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`start_position` | No | String | The position from where the source starts reading stream events when the DynamoDB stream option is enabled. `LATEST` starts reading events from the most recent stream record. 

## Exposed metadata attributes

The following metadata will be added to each Event that is processed by the DynamoDB source. These metadata attributes can be accessed with
the [expression syntax getMetadata function](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/#getmetadata).

* `primary_key` - The primary key of the DynamoDB item. For tables that only contain a partition key, this value will give the partition key. For tables that contain both a partition and sort key, the primary_key attribute will be equal to the partition and sort key, separated by a `|` (i.e. `partition_key|sort_key`)
* `partition_key` - The partition key of the DynamoDB item
* `sort_key` - The sort key of the DynamoDB item. This will be null if the table does not have a sort key

> * `dynamodb_timestamp` - The timestamp of the DynamoDB item. This will be the export time for export items, and the DDB stream Event time for stream items. This timestamp is used by sinks to emit an `EndtoEndLatency` metric for DDB stream Events, which tracks the latency between a change in the DDB table, and that change getting applied to the sink.

Reviewer 3: I think it would be ideal to consistently use `DynamoDB` instead of `DDB`. It makes it easier for the reader.

* `document_version` - Based off the `dynamodb_timestamp`, and modified to break ties between stream items that are received in the same second. Recommend for use with the `opensearch` sink `document_version` setting.
* `opensearch_action` - A default value for mapping DDB Event actions to OpenSearch actions. This action will be `index` for export items, and INSERT or MODIFY stream events. This action will be `delete` for REMOVE stream events.
* `dynamodb_event_name` - The exact event type for the item. Will be `null` for export items, and either `INSERT`, `MODIFY`, or `REMOVE` for stream events.
* `table_name` - The DynamoDB table name that an event came from.

## Permissions

The following shows the minimum required permissions for running DDB as a source

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "allowRunExportJob",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [

>                 "dynamodb:DescribeTable",

Reviewer 3: Would the user need `DescribeTable` when using only streams? If so, maybe we could split this out. See my comment below about hinting to the user about reducing permissions when using only export or only stream.

We could also create a GitHub issue and follow-up with it. It needn't hold up the PR if it will take some effort.

Author: I just checked the code and looks like DescribeTable is required for streams as well

            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowCheckExportjob",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "dynamodb:DescribeExport"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table/export/*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowReadFromStream",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "dynamodb:DescribeStream",
                "dynamodb:GetRecords",
                "dynamodb:GetShardIterator"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/my-table/stream/*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "allowReadAndWriteToS3ForExport",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:PutObjectAcl"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::my-bucket/*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer 3: It might be useful to add a paragraph here that tells users they can remove Sid `allowReadFromStream` when doing an export only. And also remove the correct Sid's (`allowRunExportJob`, `allowCheckExportjob`, `allowReadAndWriteToS3ForExport`)  when streaming only.
